README.md, before:

PyHawkes implements a variety of Bayesian inference algorithms
for discovering latent network structure
given point process observations. Suppose you observe timestamps
of Twitter messages, but you
don't get to see how those users are connected
to one another.
You might infer that there is an unobserved connection from
one user to another if the first user's activity tends to precede the second user's.
This intuition
is formalized by combining excitatory point processes
(aka *Hawkes processes*)  with random network
models and performing Bayesian inference to discover the latent network.

Examples
===
We provide a number of classes for building and fitting such models.
Let's walk through a simple example
where  we construct a discrete time model with three nodes, as in `examples/discrete_demo`.
The nodes are connected via an excitatory network such that each event increases
the likelihood of subsequent events on downstream nodes.
```python
# Create a simple random network with K nodes a sparsity level of p
# Each event induces impulse responses of length dt_max on connected nodes
K = 3
p = 0.25
dt_max = 20
network_hypers = {"p": p, "allow_self_connections": False}
true_model = DiscreteTimeNetworkHawkesModelSpikeAndSlab(
    K=K, dt_max=dt_max, network_hypers=network_hypers)

# Generate T time bins of events from the the model
# S is the TxK event count matrix, R is the TxK rate matrix
S,R = true_model.generate(T=100)
true_model.plot()
```

You should see something like this. Here, each event on node one adds
an impulse response on the rate of nodes two and three.
![True Model](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slinderman/pyhawkes/master/data/gifs/true.gif)

Now create a test model and try to infer the network given only the event counts.
```python
# Create the test model, add the event count data, and plot
test_model = DiscreteTimeNetworkHawkesModelSpikeAndSlab(
    K=K, dt_max=dt_max, network_hypers=network_hypers)
test_model.add_data(S)
fig, handles = test_model.plot(color="#e41a1c")

# Run a Gibbs sampler
N_samples = 100
lps = []
for itr in xrange(N_samples):
    test_model.resample_model()
    lps.append(test_model.log_probability())

    # Update plots
    test_model.plot(handles=test_handles)
```

If you enable interactive plotting, you should see something like this.
![Inferred Model](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slinderman/pyhawkes/master/data/gifs/hawkes_inf_anim.gif)

In addition to Gibbs sampling, we have implemented maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimation,
mean field variational Bayesian inference, and stochastic variational inference. To
see how those methods can be used, look in `examples/inference`.

Installation
===
To check out, run 
`git clone git@github.com:slinderman/pyhawkes.git`

To compile the cython code, run
`python setup.py build_ext --inplace`
  
This codebase is considerably cleaner than the old CUDA version, and is still
quite fast with the Cython+OMP extensions and joblib for parallel sampling of
the adjacency matrix.

For installing on OSX see the [INSTALL_OSX.md](INSTALL_OSX.md) file.


More Information
===
Complete details of this work can be found in:

 Linderman, Scott W. and Adams, Ryan P. Discovering Latent Network Structure in Point Process Data.
 *International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML)*, 2014.

and

 Linderman, Scott W., and Adams, Ryan P. Scalable Bayesian Inference for Excitatory Point Process Networks.
 *arXiv preprint arXiv:1507.03228*, 2015.

Commit message:

updating instructions for multithreading.  defaulting to slow implementation for users without OpenMP and gslrandom.

README.md, after:

PyHawkes implements a variety of Bayesian inference algorithms
for discovering latent network structure
given point process observations. Suppose you observe timestamps
of Twitter messages, but you
don't get to see how those users are connected
to one another.
You might infer that there is an unobserved connection from
one user to another if the first user's activity tends to precede the second user's.
This intuition
is formalized by combining excitatory point processes
(aka *Hawkes processes*)  with random network
models and performing Bayesian inference to discover the latent network.

Examples
===
We provide a number of classes for building and fitting such models.
Let's walk through a simple example
where  we construct a discrete time model with three nodes, as in `examples/discrete_demo`.
The nodes are connected via an excitatory network such that each event increases
the likelihood of subsequent events on downstream nodes.
```python
# Create a simple random network with K nodes a sparsity level of p
# Each event induces impulse responses of length dt_max on connected nodes
K = 3
p = 0.25
dt_max = 20
network_hypers = {"p": p, "allow_self_connections": False}
true_model = DiscreteTimeNetworkHawkesModelSpikeAndSlab(
    K=K, dt_max=dt_max, network_hypers=network_hypers)

# Generate T time bins of events from the the model
# S is the TxK event count matrix, R is the TxK rate matrix
S,R = true_model.generate(T=100)
true_model.plot()
```

You should see something like this. Here, each event on node one adds
an impulse response on the rate of nodes two and three.
![True Model](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slinderman/pyhawkes/master/data/gifs/true.gif)

Now create a test model and try to infer the network given only the event counts.
```python
# Create the test model, add the event count data, and plot
test_model = DiscreteTimeNetworkHawkesModelSpikeAndSlab(
    K=K, dt_max=dt_max, network_hypers=network_hypers)
test_model.add_data(S)
fig, handles = test_model.plot(color="#e41a1c")

# Run a Gibbs sampler
N_samples = 100
lps = []
for itr in xrange(N_samples):
    test_model.resample_model()
    lps.append(test_model.log_probability())

    # Update plots
    test_model.plot(handles=test_handles)
```

If you enable interactive plotting, you should see something like this.
![Inferred Model](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/slinderman/pyhawkes/master/data/gifs/hawkes_inf_anim.gif)

In addition to Gibbs sampling, we have implemented maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimation,
mean field variational Bayesian inference, and stochastic variational inference. To
see how those methods can be used, look in `examples/inference`.

Installation
===
To check out, run

    git clone git@github.com:slinderman/pyhawkes.git

To perform a basic installation, run

    pip install -e .

This will be rather slow, however, since the default version does not do
any multi-threading.  For advanced installation instructions to support
multithreading, see [MULTITHREADING.md](MULTITHREADING.md).

This codebase is considerably cleaner than the old CUDA version, and is still
quite fast with the Cython+OMP extensions and joblib for parallel sampling of
the adjacency matrix.


More Information
===
Complete details of this work can be found in:

 Linderman, Scott W. and Adams, Ryan P. Discovering Latent Network Structure in Point Process Data.
 *International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML)*, 2014.

and

 Linderman, Scott W., and Adams, Ryan P. Scalable Bayesian Inference for Excitatory Point Process Networks.
 *arXiv preprint arXiv:1507.03228*, 2015.
